**Syllabus:** 
Code Optimization and Run Time Environments, Principal Sources of Optimization, Machine- independent Optimization, Machine-dependent Optimization, Optimization of Basic Blocks, Loop Optimization, Peephole Optimization, Introduction to Global Data Flow Analysis, Storage Organization, Static Storage Management, Heap Storage management, Parameter Passing. Error Recovery, Panic mode, Statement mode, Global correction.

## Machine Independent Optimization
- Machine independent optmization doesnt use the properties of the cpu architecture.
- It aims to improve the intermediate code to get better terget code.
- The part of the code it works on doesnt involve any absolute memory addresses or CPU registers.

4 types:
1. local optimization
	- constant folding
	- dead code elimination
	- common sub expression elimination
1. Loop optimization
	- Code motion
	- Strength reduction
	- Induction var elimination
1. Data flow analysis
2. Algorithimic optimization

#### Data flow analysis
- it is a global optimization technique.
- The compiler performs optimization efficiently by collection information about the program and distributing it to all the blocks of the data flow graph.
- Basic terminologies related to Data flow analysis:
  1. definition point: it is the point in the program where the data item is defined. 
  2. reference point: it is the point in the program where the data item is referenced.
  3. evaluation point: it is the point in the program where an expression is evaluated.
##### Data Flow Analysis Equation

The data flow analysis equation is used to collect information about a program block. The following is the data flow analysis equation for a statement s-

```plaintext
Out[s] = gen[s] U In[s] - Kill[s]
```

where

Out[s] is the information at the end of the statement s.

gen[s] is the information generated by the statement s.

In[s] is the information at the beginning of the statement s.

Kill[s] is the information killed or removed by the statement s.

The main aim of the data flow analysis is to find a set of constraints on the In[s]’s and Out[s]’s for the statement s. The constraints include two types of constraints- The transfer function and the Control Flow constraint.

## Machine Dependent Optimization
### Peephole optimization

Peephole optimization is an optimization technique performed on a small set of compiler-generated instructions; the small set is known as the peephole optimization in compiler design or window.

**Some important aspects regarding peephole optimization:**

1. It is applied to the source code after it has been converted to the target code.  
     
2. Peephole optimization comes under machine-dependent optimization. Machine-dependent optimization occurs after the target code has been generated and transformed to fit the target machine architecture. It makes use of CPU registers and may make use of absolute memory references rather than relative memory references.  
     
3. It is applied to a small piece of code, repeatedly.  
     

The objectives of peephole optimization are as follows:

1. Improve performance
2. Reduce memory footprint
3. Reduce code size.